 New world Background
The New World is a roughly typical "middle age fantasy world," yet there are many connections to YGGDRASIL in both history and culture. Ainz Ooal Gown's objective is to make his (originally his guild's) name an everlasting legend in this world.[2]

Ainz noted this world was like continental Europe which had recently come out of the Middle Ages. However, certain parts were said to be far more advanced than their modern age counterparts. For example, there were magic items that could produce light without fuel and electricity. There were leather pouches that produced, although not infinite, an unnaturally large amount of water. There were hemp baskets that could easily produce plenty of feed for horses. There were also pots that could produce seemly limitless amounts of strange-tasting wheat porridge. Due to these technological advancements created through magic, this world had deviated greatly from the World of 2138 that Ainz used to inhabit.[3]

Surprisingly, this world itself automatically translates all of the foreign spoken languages, including the nuance and details into a recognizable form. Thus, the mouth movements of a speaker may not match with the sound that the listener hears. Everyone accepts these translations naturally, but it is still necessary to learn letters in order to read the written language.[4] Specific nouns retained their original pronunciation, but other meaningful vocabulary was translated.[5]

"Humans" in this world are not Homo sapiens sapiens. This is why they can become stronger than beasts by training. The author called humans in this world, "Homo sapiens magitheus" (this scientific name itself is just a joke), and Homo sapiens sapiens became extinct a long time ago. In a way, compared to humans in the World of 2138, their physical abilities are not that of Homo sapien sapiens.[6] There were many nations in the center of the continent where the humanoid species were on the bottom of the totem pole.[7]

One has mentioned that the ocean is not salty, though the truth in that statement is doubtful. On the other hand, there were magical spells that produced salt, sugar, and spices, as well as ones which restored nutrients to the soil, removing the need for a fallow period in agriculture.[8] According to Ainz, the rainwater of the New World was regarded as still being pure and clean unlike the World of 2138.[9]

The magic weapons in this world were made by having a magic caster enchant a weapon produced by a blacksmith. In other words, a skilled magic caster was more important than a skilled blacksmith when it came to making a powerful magic weapon. However, there were exceptions to that rule. Magic casters like Fluder could make the stilettos which Clementine carried through his magical knowledge, but the same could not be said for Gazef's sword.

Power Level
The inhabitants from the New World are considered to be extremely weak under YGGDRASIL standards. Gazef Stronoff, known as the strongest warrior of the Re-Estize Kingdom officially, had a hard time fighting against a devil of a lower level than the Death Knight (35). Fluder Paradyne, known as the strongest wizard of the Baharuth Empire possesses a strength that is comparable to the legendary Thirteen Heroes. While Fluder is by far the only native human in the New World who was able to use 6th-tier magic, Narberal Gamma and YGGDRASIL entities, on the other hand, can use magic beyond that tier level beyond it with great ease.[10]

In the past right, before the Eight Greed Kings began their campaign for world domination, the number of powerful individuals and monsters were far more common with the Dragon Lords being the overall dominant race. The ensuing power struggle diminished, all races including the amount of very powerful individuals and those of great power became, even more, a rarity by the present times. Additionally, the Eight Greed Kings treated humans very well and that resulted in humans having the chance to gain more control in the region.

The graded list of warrior type characters presented by the author suggests the approximate level boundaries of this world. Level 19 seems to be the limit one can reach by sheer effort (from Climb, who is weaker than 20 level warrior, Zaryusu Shasha). Level 29 seems to be the limit one can reach by both effort and talent (from Gazef), who is weaker than 30 level beast, Hamsuke). Those who are over level 30 were estimated to be at the "Realm of Heroes" (Clementine). However, those beyond that ranking are legendary monsters like the Evil Deities with the power to overthrew countries[11] seems to be around level 50 (Evileye).

However, this is the only thing about human society that has been shown to us so far. There are many other characters in human society, whose identities have not yet been identified completely, but can surely beat level 59 individuals like Lupusregina Beta (Demi-gods of Slane Theocracy)[12], and there are also those who aren't part of human society at all (Dragon Lords). If it's the case where the other party is a True Dragon Lord, not even all members of Pleiades will be a match against that extraordinary being.[13] One noted individual has been confirmed to have reached the upper mid 90's in terms of level and another was able to stand on his own against another player and a couple individuals even managed to defeat them. Thus True Dragon Lords can be considered the most powerful race of the new world outside of those from YGGDRASIL.

Demi-human races have a natural strength that is usually stronger than the average human, such as those of the average beastman has ten times the natural strength of a human,[14]. The beastman that are exceptionally strong are rare, such as the Quagoa Lord (Pe Riyuro) who was known as the strongest of his kind at level 38.[15]

The Undead of the New World have been noted to have the capacity to reach individual powers that far exceed regular humans and demi-humans with several members noted to have reached a difficult rating of 150 or roughly equal to level 50 monsters thus labeling them as nation destroyers. However, most of them tend to stay isolated from the outside world and prefer to continue to research and improve their magic and experiments. Meanwhile, some have even organized themselves in groups to keep tabs and not interfere with one another. More so, some individuals are noteworthy to have mastered the 8th tier, the highest tier confirmed thus far that any new world inhabitant has mastered outside of those from YGGDRASIL.

Still, one could train to be a warrior, a magic caster or a rogue. It was not just humans who could train themselves in such techniques. While creatures with racial advantages generally were not inclined towards such training, some of them would put in the effort to hone such skills, and that made them very difficult opponents for humans.[16]

This is the Nazarick enemy power scale:

Level 1~40 (useless weaklings): 99% of people belong here.
Level 41~70 (worthy of attention): characters involved in major events.
Level 70+ (worthy of remembrance): only mentioned in the Web Novel or author's blog chat.
The following is mentioned by Maruyama in the Author's Blog Chat covering the power level of the new world:

Clementine (Black Scripture Equipment) > Gazef (All 5 Kingdom Treasure Equipment) > Clementine (Equipment used during the fight against Momon) > Hamsuke > Gazef > Brain > Gagaran > Zero > Wall (Possibly meant as the max average human's possible limit thru hard work, this is just a conjecture) > Zaryusu > Climb > a tiger > average human

From that, we can guess that the plain listed Gazef/Brain/Gagaran/Zero/Zaryusu/Climb and the like are using standard equipment. As Brain without a sword, he would most likely not beat Zero, a monk who doesn't need a weapon.

The author Maruyama mentioned that in the world of Overlord series, a person’s physical strength is decided by 3 things: Basic strength (decided by race and training) + Level (the power of evolution) + Class build (mysterious power from the laws of magic).[17]

The only official level shown for natives in the New World (taken from all the character sheets) are prominent lizardmen[18], Gondo Firebeard[19], Olasird'arc Haylilyal[20], and Pe Riyuro. Whereas each respective character sheet for others like Gazef, Brain, Climb, and Gagaran, there has been no reveal of their estimated level.

Process of Leveling Up
In the New World, living things which have a high level also possess a high defensive power. Similarly, even if they are struck by magic, the damage is affected by the level difference that sets them apart from each other. Though it is impossible to be unhurt if one’s eyeball is pierced. For starters, some monsters out there may snap. Particularly dragons among other ones along with it, usually face the probability of injury and death can change based on what kind of edged instrument is used.

As for Level Up (growth), it's a kind of evolution of the species which comes from the author Maruyama’s way of thinking. Even if the same edged instrument is used to stab, the degree of the wound would differ between a bear and a human. That’s the sort of impression at play there. The reason high-level humans have a high resistance rate to poison and illness is for a similar reason like it. That is to say Level Up is an evolutionary growth process into a superior living thing. It's the first step to becoming stronger over the course of leveling.

The gathering of similar magical power gives rise to a massive field. One can also train their body in addition to this. There is always the individual's physical strength started from a foundation which can be trained further. Coinciding with this training is also the idea of the Level Up Physical Strength (evolution) + and various corrections from classes etc (power that comes from unfathomable magical power) should be the plan.[21]

In other words, Levels equate to what is called Evolution. There tends to be variable magical augmentation which is relative to the level of others. For instance, if a person has a certain Level, this magical energy would work to diminish attacks from those whose Level is lower than them. Levels themselves physically alter the person's body in perceptible ways. Levels or at the very least the Mana and stats are given from it seem to stay with the body.

Native Powers
Tier Magic
Most of the spells derived from this magic in the New World are ranked by tier, like in YGGDRASIL. However, 6th tier or below is the only thing the world's natives have knowledge or use of as most of them had never heard of those ranking above it except a few like Evileye. Tier Magic was said to have been used by the Six Gods six hundred years ago. When the Eight Greed Kings arrived a century later after the previous group of players, they were able to effectively spread the existence of Tier Magic to the point that people began acquiring it and learning it over their traditional magic system. Although New World inhabitants were following the same system of Tier Magic as the players, they happen to develop and create new tier spells that are different from YGGDRASIL standard. For instance, the 0th tier is unique to only the New World which cannot be found in the game.

Wild Magic
According to Fluder, Wild Magic was supposedly looked upon as the primal magic of the New World before modern Tier Magic from YGGDRASIL was introduced. At present, the scarcity of users remains extremely small in numbers due to how difficult it was to cast as well as the following conditions required to use it like a Dragon Lord's bloodline, etc.

It has been confirmed that one cannot cast both Tier Magic and Wild Magic as the two principles of magic are incompatible with one another and would be rendered useless, however, there are loopholes that can bypass this restriction if certain conditions are met.

Runecraft
Prior to the introduction of Tier Magic into the New World, Runecraft was considered the original magical art used by dwarves in the past. However, it was viewed as outdated later on when Tier Magic was proven to be more superior in terms of magical enchantment effectively.

Martial Arts
Exclusive to the New World, martial art skills allow the user to move in ways, which are normally physically impossible. So far, it can only be learned by natives born within that world.

Talent
Talent is a kind of innate ability that 1 in 200 can get in the New World. The talent's worth can be varied depending on the user's ability, job, circumstance, etc.

Geographical Features
New World
Areas with known locations
Azerlisia Mountains: A mountain range that runs between the Re-Estize Kingdom and the Baharuth Empire.
Dwarf Kingdom: Founded by one of the Thirteen Heroes, this nation lies within these mountains.
Feo Jera: The second capital of the dwarven nation that lies northeast of Feo Raidho.
Feo Raidho: A dwarven city located to the southeast of Feo Jera.
Feo Teiwaz: A dwarven city located west of Feo Jera.
Feo Berkana: The ancient capital of the dwarven nation.
Great Rift: An unfathomable chasm located west of Feo Jera.
Land of Molten Magma: An underground region beneath the Azerlisia Mountains. There were naturally-formed portals which were close to the [Gate] spell in power, and they joined the magma flows of this region to those of a distant region.[22]
Maze of Death: An underground labyrinth.
Great Lake: A broad lake located in the southern end of the Azerlisia Mountains, about 20 kilometers in diameter. The northern part is deep while the southern part is shallow with a broad swamp.
Lizardmen Village: Home of the lizardmen located at the southern part of the Great Lake.
Great Forest of Tob: Forest is located at the south of the Great Lake and the Azerlisia Mountains. The southern part of the forest was the territory of Hamsuke.
Forest of Death: An Mass for the Dead only location, located in the northeast of the Tob Forests.
Monument of Ruin: A fortress located in the center of the Tob Forests.
Katze Plains: Plains located south of the Tob Forests. This area acts as the battlefield between the Kingdom and the Empire. Many undead monsters appear due to the lingering grudges of the people killed in battle.
Re-Estize Kingdom: Located west of the Azerlisia Mountains.
Re-Estize: A city which is the Capital of Re-Estize Kingdom.
E-Asenal: A city located northwest, near the borders of the Argland Council State.
Re-Beauleuror: A city located northwest of Re-Estize.
Re-Uroval: A city located in the north of Re-Blumrushur.
Re-Blumrushur: A mining city located to the west of the Azerlisia Mountains.
E- Raevel: A city located east of Re-Estize.
Re-Robel: A city located to the southwest of Re-Estize.
E-Pespel: A city located southeast of Re-Robel.
E-Naeurl: A small city located west of Re-Uroval.
Sorcerer Kingdom: Located south of the Azerlisia Mountains.
E-Rantel: Fortress city close to the border between the Re-Estize Kingdom and the Baharuth Empire and capital of the Sorcerer Kingdom.
Carne Village: A frontier settlement located northeast of E-Rantel.
Baharuth Empire: Located east of the Azerlisia Mountains.
Arwintar: Capital of the Baharuth Empire.
Imperial Castrum: A fortress located in proximity to the Katze Plains.
Slane Theocracy: Located south of the Kingdom and the Empire.
Silksuntecks: Capital of the Slane Theocracy.
Argland Council State: Located northwest of the Re-Estize Kingdom. It is the allied nation of demi-human races.
Roble Holy Kingdom: Located southwest of the Re-Estize Kingdom. Another human nation.
Great Wall: Located east of the Holy Kingdom.
Kalinsha: A fortress city in the Northern Holy Kingdom and closest to the Great Wall.
Debone: A fortress city in the Southern Holy Kingdom.
Hoburns: Capital of the Roble Holy Kingdom.
Prart: A major city that lies east of Hoburns and west of Kalinsha.
Rimun: A port city that lies west of Hoburns.
Loyts: A small city that governed by a baron.
Abelion Hills: A area of hills that lie between the Slane Theocracy and the Roble Holy Kingdom.
Dragon Kingdom: Located south of the Empire and east of the Theocracy. Kingdom founded by a powerful dragon. Ruled by Queen Draudillon Oriculus, great-granddaughter of Brightness Dragon Lord. The Dragonic Kingdom is now suffering invasions from their neighbor, the Beastmen Nation.
Elf Country: Located south of the Slane Theocracy.
Crescent Lake: A lake by the elven royal capital.
Great Forest of Evasha: located south of the theocracy, the elf country is within this great forest.
Three Trees: A trio of trees that marks the location of the dark elf territory.
Aju: A dark elf village to the north of the Great Forest of Evasha.
Dark Elf Village: A unnamed dark elf village and the largest settlement in its vicinity.
Karsanas City-State Alliance: Located northeast of the Baharuth Empire.
Karksahnas
Pepo Alo
East Gaitsch
West Gaitsch
Veneria
Greater Ristaran
Oakneis
New Oakneis
Granvitz
Lee
Franklin
Bebard: Ruled by Re-Kista Cabelia
Centaur Plains: Located east of the Karsanas City-State Alliance.
Areas with unknown locations
Aina Miscegenation League: Located to the east of an unnamed nation west of Inveria.
Seruk No.3: Located to the west of Inveria
Mount Keitenias: Located west of Inveria next to Seruk No.3, It is the residence of the Elder Coffin Dragon Lord.
Beastman Commonwealth: Located in the central continent.
Beastman Country: Located far east of the Draconic Kingdom.
Bown Swamp
Castle of Krunui: Located deep in the mountains.
City Under the Floating Castle: Located middle of the desert. Capital of the ruined country founded by Eight Greed Kings.
Crystal Lake
Demon World
Dolor Desert: Located southwest of the central continent[23]
Great Kingdom of the Pabilsag: Located within the Dolor Desert.
Slutarn: Located within the Dolor Desert.
Di Guols Empire: Located within the Dolor Desert.
Great Minotaur Nation
Inveria Kingdom: Located somewhere in the central continent. It is said to be located southeast of Re-Estize.
Large Walled City: Located west of the Aina League.
Orc Nation: Located in the central continent.
Sasasharu Ruins
Sea City: Seems to be related to YGGDRASIL players.
Seven-Scorched Plain
Soba: Located in the eastern regions.
Troll Kingdom: Located in the central continent.
Valley of Shadows
Trivia
In the Web Novel, members of the Black Scripture discuss among themselves about there being a world alliance comprised of nations five hundred years ago to this day. The alliance's goal was set against stopping the deadly poison polluting their world. The Slane Theocracy stubbornly protects that strongest agreement.[24]
While the World of 2138 developed technologies by science, the New World does it through magic.
Although the written languages used by the New World inhabitants is vastly different from those used by YGGDRASIL players, both groups use the same numerical system.
According to Ainz's investigations, he learned that the human children born in the New World developed faster than those in Suzuki Satoru's world in all aspects, be it in terms of teething, speaking or walking on their own.[25]
In contrast to most New World inhabitants, Players, Dragon Lords, and Dwarves were looked upon to be master practitioners of their own respected magic.
The art of science exists in the New World and is understood by a few individuals, but it is generally looked upon with doubt compared to magic.[26]


---



Background
Tier Magic was the magic system originally used by Players in YGGDRASIL. Although the game is no longer around, Tier Magic is alive and thriving in the New World where inhabitants could use it. During the course of time, it has become the most prevalent type of magic system to date.

In the New World, the Six Great Gods utilized their power of Tier Magic to defend humanity from monstrous races. A century later, Tier Magic was introduced into the world's law of magic with more people beginning to adopt its system thanks to the efforts of the Eight Greed Kings.[1] However, as this form of magic was gaining traction among the world's inhabitants, it can cause some people to forsake their previous magic practice or have their magic system like Wild Magic get corrupted.[2] In the case of Wild Magic, monsters who were born in the world are instead acquiring the power to use Tier Magic rather than the latter.[3]

In contrast to Wild Magic and Runecraft, which are limited to certain races, Tier Magic is more compatible and more widely available for many types of users to practice. With its own controversy, Tier Magic was said to be the magical art that had supposedly caused a decline in usage of these traditional magics from other races. Regardless, Tier Magic can still be used by Dragons and Dwarves over their ancestral magic respectively. To this day, the denizens of the New World have not truly grasped its full power completely.

Along the way, New Worlders have not only adopted YGGDRASIL tier spells for their own use but have also been able to develop new and original spells that either coincides or derived from it.[4] This would include Evileye's Vermin Bane or Fluder's Obey spell with it being made for a purpose. Additionally, various items that were made with the power of Tier Magic are used by people to better accommodate their livelihood and activities.

Introduction to Types of Spells
Main article: List of Tier Spells
The spells known as Tier Magic had appeared in the New World about 500 to 600 years ago. After that, there had been several heroic magic-users, but the rumors of people other than the Thirteen Heroes using spells of the 7th-tier and up were exactly that — rumors.

In YGGDRASIL, there are more than six thousand spells for players to choose and learn from. Yet, when the New World inhabitants became practitioners of Tier Magic, they also began crafting new spells from the same system outside YGGDRASIL. Those spells are separated into four categories of spells:

Arcane: Magic that seems more western in nature.
Divine: Restorative or healing spells used by priests. Divine magic casters could, after using spells which enhanced their physical abilities, end up stronger than a half-baked warrior. 
Spiritual: Oriental magic-using talismans or psychic spells. It seems more eastern in nature.
Alternative: Spells that fall outside of the other types of spells. The magic that the paladins used fell into this category. Paladins typically cast spells in the form of blessings while Dark Knights, who were fallen paladins, also used blessing spells.
Also, it is further divided into branches such as defensive-types, necromancy-types, elemental-types, movement-types, and so on. In YGGDRASIL, they're used to help develop and specialize a unique character build among players like Momonga, a necromancer.

Regardless of which tradition of magic one was studying, the important thing when a person was starting to practice tier magic was to get a feel for it. Most of the people who had learned to use magic had done so through the feeling of making contact with the world. Anyone without that experience would be unable to cast spells.[5]

List of Tier Magic
Each of the four categories of magic consisted of spells that are divided up to ten tiers, with an additional super-tier which surpassed all the others on top of it. In YGGDRASIL, the total number of spells available was well over 6000, with each level up earning the power to learn three new spells for a max of 300 spells. Additionally, progress after every seven levels in Magic Caster Classes allows the user to rise to a new tier, ranging from the order of 1st tier to 10th tier.

0th Tier: This tier did not exist in YGGDRASIL and is instead exclusive to the New World. For people possessing very little talent/ability. The magic that inexperienced people who have yet to learn/master the first Tier are said to be at this level-similar to apprentices and students. It is regarded the same as magic tricks or sleight of hand sort of things, and certainly even if they can be used one will not be called a magic caster. It is the tier of magic that can meet the needs for simple tasks in life.
1st Tier (Level 1-7): The most common level of magic. Many practical magic are included in this tier. Anyone can use 1st-tier magic by training, though it takes too much time and effort for those without talent. Those capable of performing this tier can earn proper pay as a kind of special worker.
2nd Tier (Level 8-14): These are spells for those who have talent, numbering 1 in 5,000 to 1 in 10,000. It is the common goal of normal magic casters. Those who achieve this tier can earn a good income and reputation.[6]
3rd Tier (Level 15-21): Only the brightest achieve this tier. 3rd tier magic casters are quite rare and they were considered to be most likely a platinum-rank Adventurer at the very least.
4th Tier (Level 22-28): The highest tier that Fluder Paradyne's most skilled acolytes have managed to reach under his guidance.
5th Tier (Level 29-35): A tier that very few have reached, among them the Thirteen Heroes, who are considered the pinnacle of mankind.
6th Tier (Level 36-42): The highest tier magic for very few and capable inhabitants of the New World that can so far achieve in reaching. It is said there are currently four humanoid magic casters who could cast 6th tier spells in the entire continent, including Fluder Paradyne himself.
7th Tier (Level 43-49): Spells that only exist in legends. Although humans are unable to use it, the Slane Theocracy's magic casters can via large-scale magic rites or ceremonies. However, these are very dangerous to perform and usually end up with disastrous consequences. It seems the Thirteen Heroes are capable of using 7th tier spells, and a few individuals outside the group are rumored to use one.[7]
8th Tier (Level 50-56): In the New World, these spells are considered to be within the Mythical Realm. Night Liches have the capacity of learning the 8th tier.[8] Only in the Web Novel, there is a way to gain access to using the 8th tier and that is by conducting a large ritual. In the center of such a ritual is a human who can use the 5th tier and could improve it. It is also necessary for a large number of those present with that person at the center of it all to use the 3rd tier. Even with this, it can only be improved up to two tiers, and it is believed that there is some form of device involved. Normally, a country like the Theocracy is needed to support this.
9th Tier (Level 57-63): The only record for now is when Ainz Ooal Gown 9th tier magic named True Death was used to kill Gazef Stronoff. Decem Hougan is the first new worlder to have been confirmed to use both 9th and 10th tier magic.
10th Tier (Level 64-70): The existence of 10th-Tier magic was proven by the Nameless Book of Spells and select few individuals like Evileye know about it. Decem Hougan is the first new worlder to have been confirmed to use both 9th and 10th tier magic.
11th Tier (Level 71-100): Coined by the Theocracy's Cardinals, it is the unofficial rank of Super-Tier Magic, otherwise known as magic of the gods. By YGGDRASIL standard, it is simply called Super-Tier Magic, but there are few individuals in the New World who refer it as such to be of the 11th tier. It is labeled as the highest form of magic above all other tiers that had been used between 500 to 200 years ago before the present setting of the Overlord series.[9]
List of Metamagic Enhancements
A special form of magic that were used to add different effects to regular spells, increasing the power or advantage of their Magic Caster. So far, there had been no clear indication whether or not it can also modify summoning spells, other types of skills, buffs or debuffs.

Mechanics
A magic caster can apply multiple metamagic enhancements to a single spell and the changes are cumulative. However, one cannot apply the same form of metamagic twice for a single spell but could stack other forms to it though only once too. One is even able to store a metamagic of a spell in either a scroll, potion, or wand. Reasonably so, a magic caster doesn't need metamagic to activate an item that already stored a metamagic version of a spell. In this case, Ainz utilizing an item imbued with such power could cast "Maximize Magic: Greater Lethal" from it.

Boost Magic: It can elevate the tier and power of the spell.
Delay Magic: When it is activated, the magic delay the moment of activation of a spell.
Extend Magic: It allows the user to extend the period of time that the spell could remain active.
Maximize Magic: It increases a spell's attack power to its maximum damage potential.[10] In other words, this meant eliminating the RNG in order to ensure the spell is able to deal the most damage possible.
Over Magic: In exchange of great quantities of mana, it allows the user to activate one spell of a tier higher than what the caster is normally able to use. It is a unique form of magic that's believed to have been exclusive to the New World.[11]
Penetrate Magic: It increases the chance to penetrate magic defenses or resistances.
Silent Magic: It allows the user to activate a spell without the need to recite it, eliminating the danger of a third party or person disrupting the activation.
Twin Magic: Unlike the original spell which can only create one object, this magic allows the user to create the same object twice from that spell without casting it again.
Triplet Magic: Unlike the original spell which can only create one object, this magic allows the user to create three of the same object from that spell without casting it again. It's most likely a superior version of Twin Magic.
Widen Magic: It increases the range or area of effect over what the spell would normally possess.
Five Elements: So far, Yin and Yang are the two principles used in conjunction with a tier spell.
Super-Tier Magic
Overlord II EP04 079
Ainz Ooal Gown Casting Creation.

While magic only goes up to the 10th-Tier, Super-Tier Magic is said to go beyond that limit. Super-Tier Magic acts more like a special ability rather than an actual spell. Magic casters can unleash it without consuming any of their MP. The number of super-tier spells a player could learn is one for each level after level 70. When it is first learned, it can only be used one time a day. However, it can be used increasingly once more for every additional ten levels gained. Thus, the average player who has managed to finally reach level 100 in YGGDRASIL is able to use Super-Tier Magic at least four times a day and will have about thirty super-tier spells in their arsenal. Each super-tier spell also needed a certain amount of casting time before it could be put into effect.[12]

For that reason, Super-Tier Magic cannot be activated consecutively every time. First, it has an activation period and a certain amount of damage done to the magic caster will interrupt the casting. Various means of interruption include teleportation ambushes, bombardment from atop a magic carpet, or extremely long-range sniping.[13] Second, it is possible to use cash items to remove that casting time, but with a penalty that prevents the repeated casting of super-tier spells. Magic casters who were preparing a super-tier spell could also suffer from their defenses being lowered. The basics of casting super-tier spells included protecting the caster with several friends.

Once any member of a team cast a super-tier spell, every member would be penalized by being unable to cast such spells for a certain period of time — in other words, a cooldown period. This restriction was put in place to prevent guild wars in YGGDRASIL from being decided by who could vomit out the most super-tier spells.

The author Maruyama notes that there is no class exclusive to Super Tier Magic when some have the potential in using that power with a given charge or price to it. However, there exists Super-Tier Magics that can likely be obtained and learn from completing events.[14] According to him, by having unknown specific classes, it was not entirely impossible for NPCs to access unusual Super-Tier Magics that are treated like secret tricks or cheats.[15] Special class skills can be used to enhance the power of a super-tier spell-like Iä Shub-Niggurath.[16]

List of Super-Tier Spells
Book of Revelations Malevolent Locust/Disaster of Abaddon's Locust (Web Novel Only)[17]
Creation: It is a super-tier spell that can change the terrain itself. In YGGDRASIL, it was used to guard against the heat of volcanoes or the cold of freezing lands. According to Ainz's experiment, it had an amazingly large area of effect and could cover the entire 8th Floor inside the Great Tomb of Nazarick.
Dark Dream (Web Novel Only)[18]
End of Earth (Web Novel Only)
Fallen Down: Upon casting the super-tier spell, Ainz calls upon a huge pillar of blue light from the sky that will burn so bright and hot that it will appear like the whole world has turned white. After a few seconds, it will leave behind an area burned to a cinder, devoid of life. This spell deals massive damage, especially to an undead-type enemy.[19]
Great Malediction Curse-killing Poison
Iä Shub-Niggurath: An AoE (Area of Effect) move which brought forth a black cyclone used to instantly kill every living being within its range. This spell inflicts an instant-death effect, and it was practically useless against the undead, golems, and other beings which had no life. While it was effective against living players and enemies, it was hard to imagine any level 100 player not having immunity to instant death. The victims are sacrificed to summon monsters over level 90, known as the Dark Young. The number summoned is proportional to the total number of sacrifices used for this super-tier spell.[20]
Judgement of Osiris: A super-tier spell which allows the user to manipulate karma values. By doing so, it is capable of reducing negative values and increasing positive ones.[21]
Nibelung I
Pandemonium: Summons 6 level 80 Demon-type monsters through the use of Super-Tier magic.
Pantheon: Summons 6 level 80, "Cherubim Gatekeepers" through the use of Super-Tier, holy-type magic under the user's command.[22] In the Manga, Ainz uses the Cross, Crown of Thorns and Japamala to activate this spell.[23]
Summoning of an Avatar of God (Web Novel Only)[24]
Sword of Damocles: According to an unknown guild member of Ainz Ooal Gown, it was described to be an orbital weapon designed to target structures.
Wind of Corruption[25]
Wish Upon A Star: A super-tier spell which consumes the user's experience points to grant a wish or more. One can gain access to it by using a special item known as Shooting Star or through learning it.[26]



-------



